>> Will Sentance: Here's how
we're gonna important checks.
So we're gonna do it over here.
Does our paidUser1 have
access to its new or
the functionality that's
specific to a paid user?
Let's have a look.
Elliot, you're up man.
paidUser1.increaseBalance(), give me
the lookup journey of JavaScript.
I'm gonna go on this side and
kind of crouch down so you can see.
So paidUser1, where do we look for it?
>> Elliot: So we'll look to the right.
>> Will Sentance: Well, we look for
paidUser1 in global memory.
>> Elliot: And if it doesn't find it there
>> Will Sentance: Doesn't find what?
>> Elliot: The increase.
>> Will Sentance: Doesn't find
increased balance method is not there.
You've got name, score, account, balance.
Don't see any increased balance method.
We wouldn't want to, would we, because
it means it would be a copy on user one,
paidUser1, and then another copy on
paidUser2, and another copy on paidUser3.
We don't want that.
We want to have a single place.
How do we get to that single place,
Elliott?
>> Elliot: Through proto?
>> Will Sentance: Through proto.
Up to
>> Elliot: Paid user functions.
>> Will Sentance: Do we find
increased balance there?
>> Elliot: Yes.
>> Will Sentance: We do.
We grab it.
We execute it.
Fantastic.
By the way, would user one have
access to paid user functions?
User one dot increase balance.
Is it on user one?
No.
Looking proto.
User functions.
Is there increased balance there?
No, because we don't want our user one to
have a increased balance functionality,
that'd make no sense.
So we kind of parcelled off functions.
We get to choose which ones we want and
pass them, not pass them down but
have them available.
But also have objects
be generated at a level
in that chain where they don't get
access to things further down.
Very nice, it's very very nice.
Okay.
This is the prototype for
design of a language.
It's not classical OP.
It's a prototypal language structure,
which is I think very interesting.
Okay.
But now let's check whether you
can still give paidUser1 access to
that sayName function that is
definitely not on its set of functions.
Let's go through the journey.
Seth, give me the lookup journey.
>> Seth: PaidUser1 sayName is gonna
look in the paidUser1 in global memory.
It's not gonna find it.
>> Will Sentance: One second,
it's not gonna find it.
Yep.
>> Seth: It's going to freak out briefly
and then look in proto.
>> Will Sentance: Where it's also-
>> Seth: Not gonna find it.
And then it's gonna look in that proto,
where it will find it.
>> Will Sentance: Where it
will find it and execute it.
Very nice Seth, excellent.
All right, folk.
That's, this is solution two, done.
This is the most fine grain,
this is the senior dev question,
tell me how subclassing works under
the hood, because this is it.
Now, we are going to mask this
with a new keyword implementation
that still requires, honestly, a little
bit too much work to do in subclassing.
Which is why it was reasonable for
solution four to emerge as the new
standard, where this whole approach
is handled in a cleaner fashion
through classes and through
the extends and the super keywords.
And that's what we will see in a moment.